[Music]
I have another question.  Excuse me, ma'am, for the past few
days, everyone has been shocked by the
case of a young mother who heartlessly
drowned her 33-day-old child.  I was
deeply saddened to witness
this event.  When the police investigated, they concluded that the
mother was suffering from postpartum depression, which led to her
actions.  But according to her testimony,
when she woke up she felt very
uncomfortable, as if someone else was controlling
her.  She took her newborn child
into the bathroom, placed the baby face down in a
basin of water, and then took a piece of charcoal.  Write on the
stairs.  I will kill your grandson.  I will kill your
grandson.  Then, calmly, he went to bed and fell
asleep.  Grandpa found the child
dead that morning.  As a Buddhist practitioner.  I understand that it
's karma.  I've noticed this in the last few years
.  Cases of mothers killing their babies due to
postpartum depression are very common.
So, Yen's answer to this question is that
to avoid mothers suffering from
depression, we have a
responsibility to provide good education for women
.  And furthermore, when the person is lying on top of you,
they're in a very difficult situation, so we need to have the
knowledge to take care of them when they're lying on top of you.
The person who pinned the child down was especially the
eldest child.  Because they are living
very normal lives.  I can
eat the foods I
like and sleep comfortably.  When
a mother gives birth, her
psychology undergoes a complete transformation.  A
complete change in mindset means that when the baby cries, you have to get
up, but this is something that hasn't been cultivated
since before birth.  Not yet
trained.  Then, they could
n't even learn to cook the necessary dishes.
That means at that moment you want to
eat this or that, but when it's time to sleep, you
have to abstain; you can't eat those things
.  So, there are two psychological states
related to sleep, one related to eating, and the
third psychological state is the imposed
teaching and guidance of experienced people.  These three
psychological states contribute to the distress experienced
by mothers after childbirth.
So we need to prepare
our children mentally beforehand, letting them know
that after they are born, they will have to
eat these foods, and here's
why they have to eat them that way.  So,
I have to explain first why my child shouldn't
be bathed often. It's so uncomfortable, the
pores are so open, and if they get sick later,
I have to find ways to buy medicine for them
to ensure they're
clean and need to be bathed. No one can stand
not bathing because of the blood and milk they produce.
So, I have to ensure my child is
clean and hygienic, to prevent
discomfort and stress.
I also need to prepare their diet and, more importantly, support their
sleep so they are
comfortable and won't suffer from
postpartum depression.  Yen demonstrated this through
her own experience when she gave birth to her
first child.  Yen was completely unprepared back then
.  Yen also realized she was falling
into depression, something she only just understood.  But back then
it was very difficult, and I had to
force myself into a moral code
.  But it annoys me terribly
.  And Yen herself was also
sick.  Illness after childbirth is caused by
these psychological factors.  So I think
that if Yen hadn't practiced Buddhism in the past, she would
never have let her daughter-in-law
fall into this situation, or if she were a mother, she would
n't have let her own child
fall into the same situation as her.  Prepare your child
mentally.  Before and after giving birth,
Yen's mother-in-law was very kind, but she
only taught Yen that much.  The only instruction was that the child should
n't take a bath.  But it
was July, and it was incredibly hot.  She's covered in sweat
from morning till night, and she smells of milk,
urine, and even her own baby's poop—I ca
n't stand not letting her bathe
.  After enduring it for so many days, he could
n't bear it any longer.  So I had no choice but to
hide from my mother.  I went inside the house and took a bath
using only plain water.  The reason I hid was
because I had to hide while taking a shower; it felt comfortable,
joyful, and refreshing, and it helped me
relieve my stress at that moment.  But
the lasting consequence is always catching a
cold later on.  That's how I
came to the idea that if
I had a daughter-in-law, I would immediately give her a bath
with herbs I could find at the
pharmacy.  Give it a bath every day.  I take a
bath once a day; I bathe whenever I feel hot.
Bathing with herbal remedies ensures the
child's health.  That way, by doing my part,
I won't cause my child suffering.
Secondly, every morning at 5:00 AM, Yen's mother-in-law would
call out, "Yen, come eat your breakfast."  You
have to eat rice before you can have milk for your baby.
That's absolutely true.  But the truth
is, my child is fussy until 2 or 3 in the morning before finally falling
asleep, and by 5:00 in the morning, when he's sleeping soundly,
I can finally get some sleep.  But my mother kept telling
me to just wake up and eat when she called.  Then,
even swallowing it wouldn't work.  But it gave rise to feelings of
resentment.  So here, we need to
gain knowledge from our work.
I'll let my child sleep whenever they
want, and when my grandchild sleeps, I'll
sleep too.  And the person who takes care of the
newborn baby should know that they need to help the baby
when it's ready to get some sleep.  And if
it's already asleep, when it wakes up and
eats, it will have a good appetite.  Then it will be able to eat the
other foods.  And here's the thing, I'm
not even getting enough sleep.
That's a very stressful psychological state.
Through this article, Hien also wants to
share with the public—grandmothers,
mothers-in-law, and
biological mothers—that they should love their children
as much as they love themselves.  I was the
first daughter-in-law to come, and my daughter is the
second.  Don't become an
overbearing mother-in-law who torments those who are just like
you.  Do the general public agree
?  People often say that the relationship between
mother-in-law and daughter-in-law must be one of bitter
animosity.  Oh, I
was a daughter-in-law back then too, and I don't see any difference between me and
my daughter now.  So never let
the saying "blood is thicker than water, hearts are cold" be
dismissed.  My daughter-in-law is just like
me in the past.  Think of it that way, and your
daughter-in-law will become like your own daughter.
If anyone still thinks of this as their
daughter-in-law and this as their daughter, then that person is the
most foolish person in the world.  It's
strange that I don't have children,
right?  I lost my children.   If
I cherish my daughter-in-law, she will cherish my
daughter.  So what will they add?
Just add some sisters and brothers, okay?
Therefore, my daughter-in-law is also my child, my
daughter is also my child, my son-in-law is also
my child, and my son is also my child.  They are
all human beings.  Therefore, we must live with
this full wisdom in order to attain
compassion.  But if you just rely on
love alone, you'll end up complaining about many things
.  Yen would like to end
her answer here.
[music]